# 2022 FYE-HACA-Notes

Contents:
- [2022 FYE-HACA-Notes](#2022-fye-haca-notes)
  - [Important - L5/12 HBQ Conclusion Template](#important---l512-hbq-conclusion-template)
  - [Lee Kuan Yew STYLES OF LEADERSHIP](#lee-kuan-yew-styles-of-leadership)
    - [Authoritarian](#authoritarian)
    - [Participative](#participative)
    - [Delegative](#delegative)
  - [Goh Keng Swee STYLES OF LEADERSHIP](#goh-keng-swee-styles-of-leadership)
    - [Authoritarian](#authoritarian-1)
    - [Participative](#participative-1)
    - [Delegative](#delegative-1)
  - [Lee Kuan Yew Failures](#lee-kuan-yew-failures)
  - [Goh Keng Swee Failures](#goh-keng-swee-failures)

## Important - L5/12 HBQ Conclusion Template

In conclusion, I believe that [STAND].

While [Negative] has been [Baneful] to [Topic], I deem the benefits brought by [Positive] and [Positive] to outweigh this, as while [Negative] does [Negative], [Common Denominator]/[Why Positive > Negative], so it is not a deal-breaker. Most importantly in determining if [Stand], is the [Common Denominator], which [topic] has.

## Lee Kuan Yew STYLES OF LEADERSHIP
### Authoritarian
- **1962 Singapore Referendum (Success Initially - Unable to sustain merger)**  
Firstly, Lee Kuan Yew utilised authoritarian leadership in the Singapore referendum of 1962 because he needed to get rid of the Communists and to get out of British control - that is to gain independence. Only three options were made available to the people of Singapore of which all the options only allowed for merger with Malaysia. He himself decided that merger was needed and thus the referendum on the merger had three choices - to merge with autonomy in labour and education and retain language policies, or too much on the same conditions as other Malaysian States, or finally to merge with the terms given to North Borneo and Sarawak. All three choices were essentially saying that Singapore will merge regardless of the outcome of the referendum albeit on different terms. Hence Lee used autocratic leadership in that no one of the commoners could play a part in deciding whether to merge and he made that decision himself.
- **2004 SIA Dispute (Success)**  
Lee Kuan Yew’s authoritarian leadership can be observed via the 2004 SIA dispute.
Lee intervened in a dispute between the pilots and Singapore Airlines’ management. The Airline Pilots' Association Singapore (ALPA-S) demanded a 30 percent hike in the basic salaries and better working conditions and threatened to start a strike. 
During the outset of one of the meetings he had with the pilots, Lee told them that he had decided to take up the issue as he had been actively involved with Singapore Airlines from the very start. Lee gave ALPA-S two choices —whether to continue the agitation—or get back to work. He made it clear to them that he was prepared to ground the airlines and teach them a lesson if they continue with their threat. The dispute was over.
Therefore, Mr Lee overrode the pilots and managements’ views and thoughts, taking over the situation uncompromisingly.
- **Graduate Mother's Scheme (Authoritarian to PUSH through initially)**  
Lee Kuan Yew displayed authoritarian leadership when he forced the Graduate Mother's Scheme through.
In 1984, the Graduate Mothers' Scheme was implemented by Lee, which would gave children of graduate mothers priority admission to schools. Better educated women also got tax benefits if they had children.
Lee Kuan Yew simply used his position as the Prime Minister to force the scheme through, even when his fellow subordinates disagreed. This was also highly opposed by the public, especially the women, which shows that Lee Kuan Yew pushed the scheme through, swiftly overriding other's views.
Hence, Mr Lee overrode other people's views and utilised his position as the PM to swiftly pass a scheme which he wanted to pass.
### Participative
- **Choosing the next PM (Success)**  
Lee Kuan Yew displayed participative leadership during the succession of him as the prime minister.
Dr Tony Tan was seen by LKY as the frontrunner to takeover the helm of his leadership when he stepped down as the PM, but Lee chose to consult his cabinet on who they wished to lead them as the second PM of Singapore. Eventually Goh Chok Tong was chosen.
This proved that Lee would listen to his cabinet and get their opinions on an important matter such as this, making them part of the decision making process.
Hence, because Lee chose to consult his cabinet during the succession of him as PM, he displayed participative leadership since others had a say in the process.
- **Graduate Mother's Scheme (Participative to Withdraw the Bill)**  
An example of Lee Kuan Yew using participative leadership was the removal of the Graduate Mothers' Scheme.
In 1984, the Graduate Mothers' Scheme was implemented by Lee, which would gave children of graduate mothers priority admission to schools. Better educated women also got tax benefits if they had children. The public and some of Lee’s cabinet ministers such as Foreign Minister S Dhanabalan didn’t agree with this policy, causing an uproar. Eventually, Lee decided to remove it one year later. This shows how Lee’s decision-making was influenced by listening to his subordinates’ input and removed the policy. 
Thus, the removal of the Graduate Mothers' Scheme was an example of Lee Kuan Yew demonstrating participative leadership as he shared the decision-making process on the removal of the scheme with the public and his cabinet ministers, and eventually made the final call. 
- **Changi Airport vs Paya Lebar (Success)**  
Lee Kuan Yew demonstrated participative leadership in the construction of Changi Airport.
Many experts were against the construction of Changi Airport and felt that expanding Paya Lebar Airport would be cheaper and faster. Lee decided to get a trio of top civil servants to do a study on the feasibility of building the new airport at Changi versus expanding at Paya Lebar. They concluded that the project could be implemented in time to meet the deadline of mid-1981. After considering both sides and expert opinions, Lee made the final decision to proceed with the construction of Changi Airport
Thus, by considering the opinions of his subordinates but making the final decision, Lee demonstrated participative leadership in the construction of Changi Airport
### Delegative
- **Building of SAF Given To GKS (Failure/Success)**  
Lee Kuan Yew demonstrated delegative leadership in the creation of the Singapore Army.
LKY left the building of the national army, shortly after independence, in the capable hands of Dr Goh Keng Swee (then Minister of Interior and Defence) and gave him full autonomy to create a defence, like the National Service Amendment Bill) as he saw fit. Lee Kuan Yew totally gave the task to Goh and left the decision making process to him. Goh came up with the idea of National Service as a part of nation building, and also because he knew there was no other feasible alternative to compulsory enlistment.
Lee gave the bulk of the job to someone whom he trusted could do better, and let him make decisions.
- **Public Housing HDB given to Lim Kim San (Success)**  
Lee Kuan Yew delegated the building of public housing to the HDB.
In the 1950s, Singapore was facing a severe housing shortage. Only 9% of Singaporeans were living in government-built flats, with most of the population living squatter settlements and unhygienic slums. Many were unwilling to move into the new government-built housings.
In 1960, Lee Kuan Yew entrusted the building of public housing to the chairman of the newly-formed HDB, Lim Kim San. Apart from funding, Lee Kuan Yew did not help with anything else and left Lim Kim San to work his magic. Three years later, the HDB had built 21,000 flats.
Hence, by entrusting the whole process to his subordinates, Lee Kuan Yew demonstrated delegative leadership.
- **Cleaning Singapore River given to Lee Ek Tieng (Success)**  
Lee Kuan Yew appointed Lee Ek Tieng, the Permanent Secretary for the Environment, to be responsible for the task of cleaning up the Singapore River.
Lee Kuan Yew’s issued a public challenge to him and his team to clean the Singapore River in 1977. It was to make fishing and other recreational activities possible along the Singapore River and Kallang Basin in 10 years' time. The rivers were polluted by pig and duck farms and cottage industries upriver. The entire clean-up operation cost an estimated S$300 million, excluding resettlement compensation. And Lee Ek Tieng did so without any intervention from Lee Kuan Yew.
Many backyard and cottage industries had to be resettled, sewers had to be laid out, and pig farming phased out as their waste was polluting the streams. Many also had to be resettled. Lee Ek Tieng was responsible overall for the cleanup of the Singapore River, which was delegated to him by Lee to achieve Lee's goal of a clean and green Singapore.
Hence, as Lee was not involved in the decision making nor the process of cleaning the Singapore River, he was delegative, sourcing the work to others.
- **Appointing S. Rajaratnam for Foreign Minister (Success)**  
Lee Kuan Yew has clearly shown delegative leadership when he appointed S. Rajaratnam as Singapore's first foreign minister and made him take all the decisions for Singapore regarding foreign affairs. 
Lee Kuan Yew had placed his trust on a very capable person like Rajaratnam to overlook the foreign affairs of Singapore. Lee Kuan Yew interfered with Rajaratnam very little, and let him take important decisions by himself. He completely delegated it to Rajaratnam.
Rajaratnam carried out the foreign policy of international self-assertion to establish SG’s independence during a period when the country faced significant challenges including the KONFRONTASI in the 1960s and the withdrawal of British troops in the 1970s. He also helped SG to gain entry into the UN and the Non-Aligned Movement in 1970. Afterwords, Rajaratnam attracted foreign MNCs to invest in SG. These emphasised the trust that Lee had in him to overcome the challenges that SG faced. Rajaratnam has indeed changed many things in early SG for the better and played a crucial role in SG’s success, showing the extent of Lee’s trust in him and why Lee delegated foreign affairs to him.

## Goh Keng Swee STYLES OF LEADERSHIP
### Authoritarian
- **1959 Budget Deficit (Success)**  
Firstly, Dr Goh Keng Swee utilised authoritarian style of leadership when handling the 1959 expected budget deficit. The previous government was incompetent at managing finances and thus by the end of the year, a budget deficit of $14 million was expected. Against public opinion, Goh cut civil servants salaries, implementing strict fiscal prudence policies, freezing all public posts, and stopping infrastructural projects which had yet to commence. These were very unpopular but necessary and eventually at the end of the year, Goh generated a budget surplus of $1 million. Throughout these policies, Goh did not consult his fellow ministers, but went ahead with the salary cuts, being a swift and authoritative way of solving the expected budget deficit. Goh inspired the PAP to be disciplined in its management of the budgets after.
- **Immigration Deposit Scheme of 1963 (Success)**  
Firstly, Goh used an authoritarian style of leadership in the Immigration Deposit Scheme.
Days before Singapore merged with Malaya, Goh spoke to Ngiam Tong Dow about the Immigration Deposit Scheme which allowed people to become PRs if they had a million dollars. Goh instructed him to just give him the list of applicants and the money they were bringing in, without any analysis. He then approved all of them, despite Ngiam’s protesting. He said that once Singapore merged with Malaysia, the Central Government would make sure Singapore doesn’t “get anybody” by not “approving anyone”, since Malaysia did not want Singapore to benefit. 
Thus, because Goh made judgement calls independent of his subordinates’ and assigned clear tasks to them without much input, he assumed an authoritarian leadership style.
- **National Service Amendment Bill (Success)**  
Goh Keng Swee used authoritarian leadership when he passed the National Service Amendment Bill in 1967.
With a growing need to build a strong local defence force, Goh implemented compulsory National Service for all Singaporean males aged 18 and above through the legislation of the National Service (Amendment) Bill. Failure to comply would result in criminal charges. By Mid-April 1967, 90% of the 9000 eligible registered and the rest were arrested by police. This action shows us that the public did not have any say whether they wanted to be in the NS. Moreover, this decision was made by Goh Keng Swee himself, and the public had no choice but to comply with this decision. 
Hence, Goh Keng Swee was task-oriented, and no power was given to the people for them to choose if they wanted to opt out of NS, demonstrating his authoritarian leadership
- **Albatross Files (Success)**  
Separation of Singapore and Malaysia was instrumented mainly by Goh.
In an interview in the 1980s, Goh admitted that "by 1965, the great expectation that we foolishly had - that Malaysia would bring about prosperity, common market, peace, harmony, all that - we were quickly disillusioned". Saying that Malaysia was like an "albatross around our necks", Goh firmly believed in separation, especially after clashing with Malaysian finance minister Tan Siew Sin on economic issues.
In 1965, the birth of Singapore was decided upon and executed efficiently, flawlessly and in secret. The separation was not the work of Lee Kuan Yew, Toh Chin Chye, or S Rajaratnam. It was not their wish to separate, but for a "looser merger". Goh had other ideas.
In a secret file called "albatross" of Goh's meeting with Malaysian DPM Tun Razak and Home Affairs Minister Ismail Abdul Rahman on 20 July 1965, Goh persuaded the PAP executive committee that the only way out was for Singapore to secede completely. So, if there was a choice of one person to be named for the creation of independent Singapore, it would be Goh. Goh made the decision that separation was the only way to go, and hence influenced other party members in an authoritarian style, convincing them of this. He made this decision on his own knowledge and views, playing a large part in separation, almost forcing it, because he believed in separation. He believed from early on that separation was imminent and made sure it occured, for the benefits of Singapore.
- **Setting up Jurong Industrial Estate**  
In the 1960s, Jurong was just a huge swamp. It was the work of Goh and his team that led to the creation of Singapore Industrial Estate, from a patch of swamp and jungle. About 8600 acres of land were drained, leveled and developed over 10 years. Some felt that it was stupid and unrealistic to develop that area, however Goh ignored them and managed to totally transform Jurong, by making the decision and sticking to it. It was so impressive that Professor Jacques Rueff from the world bank, on a economic mission to Singapore in 1962, said that Jurong was now a "wonder", being "one of the most impressive developements [he's] ever seen". To those that question the wisdom of creating what was once said to be "Goh's folly", Foreign Minister S. Rajaratnam said in 1965 that "if there was no Jurong today we might have instead mass unemployment, starvation and riots". Hence, Goh used authoritarian leadership, to push for a decision made by himself that some were against and found unrealistic, ultimately being successful, because he ignored the naysayers.
### Participative
- **Goh Report of 1978 (Success)**  
Goh led a team to identify problems and propose solutions for Singapore's education system like the practice of "streaming" in schools.Goh Keng Swee reformed Singapore’s education system with ideas from his “Daring Dozen”, a group of systems engineers recruited to study the problem. He would be in charge of considering the options and their implementation created by his team nicknamed the "daring dozen". 
The team identified three main problems - high education wastage, low levels of literacy and ineffective bilingualism. These resulted in high drop-out rates. To solve this, Goh and his team introduced "streaming", which would sort the students into different tracks based on their learning ability. This leadership was participative because Goh allowed input from members on the team to propose various solutions, while continuing to supervise them and making the final decisions such as streaming, which was successful in the end.
- **Creation of MAS (Success)**  
Goh also displayed a participative style of leadership in the creation of the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS).
Around that time, the world was facing economic struggles, like the devaluation of the Sterling Pound. At the time, Singapore did not have a central monetary authority but had many agencies performing different many banking and monetary functions, which meant that it was very disorganised. To streamline the country’s monetary matters, he and his team discussed matters like the study of monetary developments with members such as Chua Kim Yeow, Sim Kee Boon and Ngiam Tong Dow. They came up with a number of measures and the creation of a centralised authority. Thus, by leading a team where everyone contributes to the discussion, with him making the final decisions, Goh used a participative style of leadership.
- **Setting up EDB and Economic Planning (Success)**  
In his new role of Finance Minister, he started work on a five-year economic plan. Singapore faced issues of unemployment and economic woes. On 1 August 1961, Goh set up the EDB (Economic Development Board), and appointed Hon Sui Sen as the EDB’s first chairman, Eric J. Mayers as the Director of EDB, and Ngaim Tong Dow to head the Technical Consultant Service Department. For his first economic plan, he did not come up with the idea all by himself but instead accepted input from other ministries and government departments, as well as the consultants from the world bank. Goh show a participative style of leadership in the sense that the creation of the EDB was the result of input from many people and organisations, while he still retained the final say.
### Delegative
- **Creation of SAF Code of Conduct (Success)**  
In the creation of the 1967 SAF Code of Conduct, Goh believed that a code of conduct should be created to give the army a sense of purpose and fighting spirit. He left this task in the hands of a jesuit priest, Father Terence J Sheridan, who was more experienced than Goh in such matters. Sheridan drafted out the code of conduct with input of other staff officers in the army. Hence, Goh brought in someone else who could do the task better than him and left the process to him, ultimately being successful in drafting the SAF code of conduct.
- **Creation of SAF left to the Israelis (Success)**  
Building Singapore's defence from the ground up, Goh Keng Swee demonstrated delegative leadership.
Goh knew it was imperative that a credible defence force be built up soon, but as to how he was supposed to do it, he was unsure. He was after all an economist, not a military strategist, and did not know how to lead this project. So he let those who are good in their areas do it. Israel volunteered to send their Deputy Head of Operations in the Israeli General Staff Rehavam Ze’evi to help set up the SAF, via “The Brown Book”, a masterplan to an operational manual on how to set up a Defence Ministry & Army for Singapore. The Singapore and Israeli governments then signed an agreement, which stated very simply that the trainers (nicknamed “The Mexicans”) Israel were to supply would take on the role of “defence advisors” and be given their equivalent Israeli salaries. Goh put the Israelis in-charge of creating Singapore’s defence force, letting them do what they wanted to do for his end goal of creating an army, since he did not have the expertise required, showing a delegative style of leadership.

> “But where would be the ideal site, away from prying eyes?”   
> “In Jurong”, said Ze’evi.  
> Colonel Yaakov Elazari decided upon the Pasir Laba area, having earlier ruled out Pulau Ubin and Pulau Tekong. Elazari made his recommendations to GKS the following Monday morning, and they were quickly accepted.  

- **Establishment of SSO (Success)**  
Goh Keng Swee displayed a delegative style of leadership with the formation of the SSO. He was responsible, but not directly involved in the establishment of the Singapore Symphony Orchestra.
A casual remark by Goh criticising Singapore’s existing aesthetics scene eventually prompted the SSO to be formed after growing domestic pressure. This led to Choo Hoey taking up the appointment as the Music Director and Conductor of the SSO. After consulting with conductor Choo Hoey about the feasibility of setting up an orchestra that would include Singaporean musicians, Goh Keng Swee persuaded the Cabinet to support the establishment of a professional orchestra. The orchestra would be supported by public funds and led by Choo Hoey himself. Such an example portrays Goh taking a hands-off approach to the formation of the orchestra, instead leaving it to Choo Hoey. Furthermore, Goh only provided a general guideline and financial support for the orchestral administration to follow, whilst providing them with the authority to manage the SSO’s crucial matters like finances and wages, amongst other aspects. 
Thus, Goh, by leaving the newly-formed symphonic orchestra in the capable hands of Choo Hoey and his team, displayed a delegative leadership style. Thus, Dr Goh demonstrated delegative leadership in having specialists implement his idea of the Singapore Symphony Orchestra.

## Lee Kuan Yew Failures
- **1955 Singapore General Elections**  
During the 1955 SGE, Lee's party, the PAP, only won 3 seats in comparison to the Labour Front, which won 10 seats. This proves that Lee was not always successful throughout his career, as he was once the opposition party as compared to modern Singapore's all-PAP absolute reign since independence. He and David Marshall both wanted independence from the British, but David Marshall won, which proved that either he or his party was better able to convince the people to vote for him instead of Lee.  
- **Graduate Mother's Scheme (Participative to Withdraw the Bill)**  
An example of Lee Kuan Yew failing was the removal of the Graduate Mothers' Scheme. In 1984, the Graduate Mothers' Scheme was implemented by Lee, which would gave children of graduate mothers priority admission to schools. Better educated women also got tax benefits if they had children. The public and some of Lee’s cabinet ministers such as Foreign Minister S Dhanabalan didn’t agree with this policy, causing an uproar. Eventually, Lee decided to remove it one year later. This shows how Lee’s decision-making was influenced by listening to his subordinates’ input and removed the policy.  Thus, the removal of the Graduate Mothers' Scheme was an example of Lee Kuan Yew failing because, he did not get to fulfill and achieve what he set out to do, which was to incentivise better educated women to have children.  
- **Merger Failed to Sustain**  
Lee Kuan Yew also failed in that he was unable to sustain merger. Due to increased political, social, and economic tensions between Malaysia mainland and Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew had hoped for a looser merger, together with Toh Chin Chye, S. Rajaratnam. He had personally believed, all his life, in the "unity of these two territories". He himself always wanted to sustain merger, since he always felt that both were connected, as evident in his iconic 1965 speech, where he cried in front of the nation. It was tragic that some of his, and his parties actions led to expulsion from Malaysia, such as the MSC, 1963 and 1964 SGE and MFE etc. He never achieved what he had hoped for, a common market, a permanent and united Malaysia. Hence he failed in being unable to sustain merger, even though he wanted it.

## Goh Keng Swee Failures
- **All-Bus vs MRT**  
Goh Keng Swee was less foresighted and realistic than Lee Kuan Yew, being a little too focused on the money at times. Goh was strongly against building the MRT and clashed with Ong Teng Cheong regarding the issue. For Goh, the issue was cost, as the MRT was estimated to cost $5 billion, which was a extremely large amount. Goh felt that this could not be justified just for the sake of making transport a little faster. To Ong Teng Cheong and Lee Kuan Yew, they saw that an all-bus system would fail due to limited road space. It was impossible for the all-bus system to work without removing all the cars from the road. Lee wanted to be dead sure that he was spending the money on the right thing, and managed to make the right choice. Today, without the MRT, a public transport system relying fully on buses would definitely fail due to high car volume. The MRT is a key part of the modern Singaporean public transport infrastructure, proving that Goh was wrong.
- **Religious Studies**   
Religious Knowledge was introduced as a compulsory programme at the upper secondary levels in schools from 1984 to 1989. It replaced the Civics and Current Affairs programme in the school curriculum. The aim of the programme was to inculcate moral values in students through education in religion. The RK programme offered Bible Studies, Buddhist Studies, Hindu Studies, Islamic Religious Knowledge, Sikh Studies and later on, Confucian Ethics as study subjects. The classes mainly educated students on the history, basic teachings, beliefs and practices of the respective religions.   
Goh Keng Swee was strongly for this programme, as he felt that it would produce upright and honest Singaporeans with a strong moral compass. He felt that religion, civics and moral education should come together. In fact, this programme somewhat emerged after the 1978/9 Goh Report. However it was eventually removed, proving that Goh had failed. NUS Sociology Department concluded that the government failed to exercise neutrality in religious matters through its implementation of the compulsory RK programme. By designating specific RK subjects to be taught under the programme, the government had provided the impression of according preferential status to certain religions that contradicted its secular position when handling religious matters in Singapore. Goh failed to consider this and his programme was removed after just 5 years.
